# Wakare
The goal of this project is to provide a set of tools able to transform hardware execution traces into formats more suitable for integration into other tools.

## Transformation process
```
                                                                                       _ text
                  +------------------+                         +------------------+   /
input trace ----> | wakare-extractor | --> protobuf stream --> | wakare-converter | --
                  +------------------+                         +------------------+   \_ sqlite
```

### Input trace
The first step of the process is to record an execution trace. For this purpose we use the perf tool as it is able to interact with hardware based tracing interfaces. For now only Intel Processor Trace traces captured by perf are supported. We can capture using the following command:

```
$ perf record -e intel_pt//u prog <args...>
```

Sometimes traces are dropped. The pt\_trace.sh script tries to minimize this by applying a few optimizations (needs root).

```
# ./scripts/pt_trace.sh
```

### wakare-extractor
Wakare-extractor is the program responsible for extracting intel pt traces from perf.data files, gathering branch information and writing the result to a protobuf file.

### wakare-converter
Wakare-converter uses the protobuf file generated by wakare-extractor and converts it to formats more suitable for integration with other tools. For now wakare-converter supports two different output formats, **sqlite** and **text**.

## Trace content
Traces produced by the tool contain the following pieces of information:
- Branches:
    - Type:
        - Jump
        - Indirect jump
        - Conditional jump
        - Call
        - Indirect call
    - Source address
    - Destination address
- Executable mappings:
    - Address range
    - File path
- Basic blocks:
    - Address
    - Hitcount

## Limitations
For now the project has a few limitations:
- Only supports Linux x86\_64
- No support for programs using multiple cores/threads

## Disassembler plugins
Plugins for disassemblers can be found in the ```plugins/``` folder.

- [Binary ninja](https://github.com/SiD3W4y/wakare-ui)
- [Radare2](https://github.com/SiD3W4y/r2wakare)

## Building
All dependencies can be installed through your package manager of choice. The only exception is [libipt](https://github.com/intel/libipt) which needs to be built from source. Once all dependencies are installed you can build as follows:

```
$ cmake .
$ make
```

Additionally some sample programs are provided and traces in all formats can be generated by running:

```
./run_tests.sh
```

## Dependencies
- protobuf
- capstone
- libipt
- sqlite3
- gflags
- cmake
